Hi guys just before we start this show I wanted to say hope you're all doing okay
in this bizarre situation that we've all found ourselves in and I hope you're staying safe
and washing your hands a billion times a minute and not going near anyone else and there's
really nothing that we can tell you about this virus that you can't already learn from the news
and the medical advice and all of that jazz but what we can do is we can still share with you
our four favorite facts from the last seven days and fill your head with distracting nonsense facts
which hopefully will distract you from the fact you're stuck in a house with your spouse or your
kids or your mates and you now all want to kill each other and will distract you even from the
slightly more disconcerting global event so as long as you guys continue to listen we am afraid
are going to continue to podcast every week starting now okay on with the show
hello and welcome to another episode of no such thing as a fish a weekly podcast coming to you
from the QI offices in cauldron garden my name is Dan Shriver I am sitting here with Andrew
Hunter Murray and itch is in ski and James Harkin and once again we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in no particular order here we go
starting with my fact this week my fact is computer pioneer Charles Babbage once cooked himself in
an oven for four minutes at 265 degrees just to see what would happen what was he trying to make at
the time cooked Babbage Babbage cabbage confusion so this was as a result of an artistic friend of
him called Sir Francis Chantry who was a sculptor and he made big bronze statues and he was doing a
particularly big one so they had to build this giant oven for him to build it to cook it in and so
Babbage heard about this and he was really intrigued and he went to see it and while he was there
he was sort of talking to them and they said why don't you go inside be interested right and
Babbage said yeah that would be interesting so he went along with another guy called Captain
Cater and his description which he wrote in his memoirs say the iron folding doors of the small room
or oven were opened Captain Cater and myself entered and they were closed upon us then the further
corner of the room which was paved with square stones was visibly a dull red heat the thermometer
marked if I recollect rightly 265 degrees he talks about his pulse quickening he talks about the
perspiration and he says it was fine he says it was absolutely fine what yeah it's only there for
how long for minutes four or five minutes six minutes he wasn't sure the heat sort of made him
bit dosy probably there's one other thing he says someone didn't go in with him he says Thomas
Lawrence who was suffering from indisposition did not think it prudent to join our party in fact
he died almost second or third day after our experiment wow Thomas Lawrence never got to go it
wouldn't have mattered if he had gone in the oven probably well maybe he should have gone in yeah
never know perhaps I had some healing properties yeah maybe yeah this is not sound medical advice
this amazing he but and he he went in other hot places well this it's thought that this was
in preparation for his next big trip which was which was he went down a volcano and
and an active volcano he went down the sousvius one of the most famous volcanoes yeah of all celebrity
volcano did you make who died died from falling into a volcano or it doesn't but I don't think so no
but he he was obsessed with he wanted to experience an earthquake and he once found out he was
in Italy at the time and he heard a town had been destroyed by an earthquake and he rushed there
just in case there were some aftershocks he could feel yeah but he said my passion was disappointed
so I consoled myself by a flirtation with a volcano oh he didn't feel the earth mood
so did he go and like dip himself in lava all happened in the bottom now he went into the crater
you know there are bits in sort of in the lip of the crater of an active volcano so he went in he saw
the lava below him and he observed the bubbles of it swelling up and because it was active at the time
he made a measurement of the eruptions he said right those every 10 minutes and he said well okay so
I can go in for up to eight minutes and he did he went in for six minutes and he was lowered by rope
was yeah yeah it's extraordinary and did he eventually throw the ring into the lava
one thing he put he put his cane down in a specific spot and it happened to
hit I think a bit of lava so it burst into flames
he had a flaming cane as he was trying to put it out yeah okay so first of all no second of all
because we've already done some stuff but who was Charles Babbage that Charles Babbage computer pioneer
he's historically linked with Ada Lovelace and he was the person who dreamt up effectively
the original computer he's he's known as the father of computing and it was something he never
got to fully make in his lifetime though in the hundreds of years since we've actually finished
his plans and shown that his plans did work so he was a genius this guy was a proper genius although
it's you say he was a father of computing but I quite like the description that is uncle of computing
oh because he didn't spawn anything and I haven't quite realized it's about Charles Babbage so he
made this very famous difference engine or he designed this difference engine in the 1820s
early 30s and that was essentially going to be a big calculator and then he thought no no I
want to do this analytical engine which was going to be a big computer and kind of the difference being
I think about memory and storage the ability to you know build on stuff well so for instance the
difference engine could only do certain things but the analytical engine you could program to do
lots of different things yes and that's where Ada Lovelace came in with her ability to program but
he did all this never got made because the government stopped funding him because he kept not
completing stuff and essentially he had zero impacts on computing so he's not the he didn't spawn
anything because everyone was just like well that was all pointless it got sold for scrap or used
up a scrap that was it only one of the computing pioneers in the 40s knew about him really what
else did and it was only in the 1970s when they're going through his paperwork that they actually
discovered oh yeah this Babbage was sort of on to this yeah it's something similar it's amazing
isn't it yeah he got two the equivalent of two million dollars from the government to make
this difference engine and then there was a change of government and he insisted on meeting the
new prime minister who was Robert Peel and he basically just turned up and yelled at his face
and then Peel went okay fine I'll talk to Parliament and so Peel went to Parliament and sort of
discussed this idea of giving him more money and everyone just decided to make jokes at his expense
it's like oh the first thing is going to calculate is when it might finally do something and stuff
like that so yeah so I was like it's up there with the banter you see in the house of peels and then
he tried to become a politician didn't he yeah but he couldn't get elected because basically I was
saying you just took two million dollars for nothing yeah and they just say they would heckle him
during his speeches about this whatever project he was doing and why he was losing this money and
it infuriated him so much that he would abandon whatever political speech he had just to yell back
at them going you don't understand what I'm working all of a genius kind of thing and then to get
more money he came up with this brilliant scheme because he couldn't get any more money from the
government so you felt what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a computer that can play
knots and crosses and I'm going to go around the country and play knots and crosses against people
for money and get all their money off them didn't really yeah and then Ada Lovelace said no that's
stupid idea yeah he's extraordinary he had so many of these little plans and ideas that took him
away from this great big idea that he was trying to work on there was a crazy one I read about where
he was at the ballet and he was watching this this show and he got really bored and he thought this
is just too boring I could do better than this so he dreamt of he dreamt of an idea which was called
the rainbow dance and he actually had this rehearsed he had 60 female dancers all represented they
were dressed in white and they represented fireflies and they were all dancing and in the background
there was a huge projected hydrogen blow lamp that had color filters on it so he would put different
colors projected onto each of the dancers on the stage so it would look like what he called
the rainbow dance that sounds really cool it sounds really cool the problem was is that it was
extremely dangerous so when they did their first rehearsal they had two fire engines standing by
because they were worried that the theater would burn down and eventually the theater owner said
I'm not doing this I'm not putting this live flame in this theater while you try and do this
will kill everyone so it was never performed so the difference engine the first the first one he
designed that would have been a calculator basically I didn't know why it was necessary to build it
but it's so before that you just had to use if you were doing calculations for various reasons
you had to think of a ready reckiner which was a table of basically sums that other people had
done but they'd done them by hand and they and these were the early computers the computers were
the people who were sitting in rooms doing basically boring wage slave work with these primitive
devices but they had loads of mistakes in them because it was really badly paid and it wasn't
interesting work to do okay I read this in two different bases and I can't quite believe it but
allegedly the first computers doing these ready reckiner tables were French hairdressers who had
been left out of work by the French Revolution well because everyone had their heads off and didn't
need a haircut in the bar or maybe like if you had long hair in the French Revolution you would
just put your head just at the edge of the guillotine so cut the long bit of your hair off
one hope no one noticed it was just that hair that was on that head then wave the hair around to the
crowd yeah we got it slink off back down the ladder so I have no idea why these French hairdressers
were left short of work by the Revolution it was definitely the truth of the French were the best
at having logarithm tables and trig tables and stuff like that and that was why he wanted to do this
difference engine because maybe it might help us catch up with the French because it gave them
an advantage in warfare because it's good for working out which directions to go in your ships and
it's good for building bridges and building things yeah is it true I read somewhere actually no
this was I remember this was on a QI episode Doro Breen made this point that when he did the plans
he left sort of like Mount Weasels in the plans so that no one could build them they would explain
what a Mount Weasel is in a map when you want to have copyright over a map you put in a fake
town or stop or it's just a little detail that anyone copies it you know that they copied it
you can prove it by saying this place doesn't exist we created it for our map and so that's
the same thing he put a few Mount Weasels but these Mount Weasels were designed to kill the machine
so it's like a virus basically yes is that doesn't excuse for cocking up
it's I think it's yeah yeah I must say if we get any facts wrong in today's episode they are
Mount Weasels my six years of this podcast have been Mount Weasels I think a friend of mine has just
written a book about dictionaries it's not out yet but it's she's called Ellie Williams and it's a
book about it's about Mount Weasels basically and apparently I think one of the first ever Mount Weasels
was someone in an encyclopedia it was an entry about miss somebody Mount Weasel who yeah and she
was sort of she was an entrapid pioneering journalist he used to have sex with Weasels that's
right she did yeah and what was that was the clue that it didn't rip and in the original
encyclopedia biography I'm going off memory so it's slightly wrong but it's something like she was
killed by an explosion when she was working for Shrapnel magazine or something they made up this
really fun fake biography for her but talking about viruses and bugs it would really be if we're
talking about actual computer viruses kind of the Ada Lovelace department that was responsible
for those because she joined him essentially didn't she so she was Byron's daughter and she
coming out ceremony she when she was 18 or whatever she met coming out had a different meaning in
those days different meaning yes what's the meaning I actually took it to be no no so people when
they sort of came of age young ladies they could be presented in society posh young ladies
okay cool and it was basically saying my ladies my daughters on the market now have your you know
have a go and so if you think you're hard enough yeah anyway she bumped into Charles Babid it was
impressed joined him wrote loads of code for his engine so I was reading a blog by a coder and
modern day code he wrote this a couple of years ago and he actually ran her code it was a code for
working out but newy numbers and he ran her code through his computer and it didn't work
and he went back through her code and I had a bug in it what's a boony oh god don't know I thought you
know I was really good I thought you know what I'll just have a really simple way of explaining
for newy numbers and I started looking into it and boy is it complicated yeah cool oh my days
it's about number theory and um powers of numbers and adding them all together and them having
certain relationships between each other okay that's hard yeah it's sexy stuff but yeah so that's
the first ever book how come is that a bit for that coder who had the first ever computer that's
amazing um I know one of us he might have struggled to get along with oh based on something
aligned in his biography who Babid yeah okay did he hate men with beards no man what you're
looking at me it's not all time you're looking sorry sorry uh glasses it's not glasses did he hate
northerners he hated puns sorry yeah he wrote that puns are detestable because they just rely on
one word sounding like another word he would have hated the Babbage Cabbage joke at the top of the show
the best thing about Babbage which is always comes up with QI research is how much he hated noise
yeah it's so good like he just he was just so anti any noise in London whatsoever and that he had
made lists of whenever there was any noise that put him off his work he detailed 165 interruptions
that he suffered over 80 days he made a list of encourages of street music which included
having keepers public houses gin shops children visitors to the city from the country uh and then
basically his neighbours hated him so much that they just started playing tin whistles out of his
outside of his house and stuff like that yeah I mean it sounds like London sounds horrific back then
and he had it had it in especially for organ grinders he said there are a thousand of them and he
was a bit xenophobic about it he said they're all Italian organ grinders who've come over here to
destroy the peace and he spent all this money on lawyers he went to the home secretary and he got
the law changed yeah he actually campaigned for and won a change in the law he was the Nigel Farage
of the early 19th century I don't think we can change that we can't go that far okay Babbage Farage
it's not a big leap yeah so like and like I said people would like tease him because they hated him
about them just him always saying turn it down turn it down and so at one stage there was a brass
band that played outside of his house for five hours and children would follow him down the street
making loads of noise and he said um he was quoted as saying in one case there was certainly above
a hundred persons consisting of men women and boys with multitudes of young children who followed
me through the streets before I could find a policeman so this is followed by a hundred people
making a load of noise he's like the opposite of the pie and pi per valentine he's not playing an
instrument everyone else playing instruments at him as they chase him down the street wow my god he
also believed in ghosts so he started a ghost club at university to prove their existence and the
other club that he set up with the same sort of group of friends was the extractors club and the
extractors club was dedicated a lot of fans he wouldn't have like that yeah the idea was that they were
dedicated to liberating any one of their members from a madhouse should they be committed yeah why is
that I guess they were coming up with so many odd ideas trying to summon the devil maybe it wasn't
funny yeah so just quickly back on the relationship with Ada Lovelace yeah um so she um
that was obviously very famous at a time in very high-end society and he was an inventor who was
obviously a bit of a genius but was not very good at completing his inventions and so she decided
to write him a letter saying that I would like to kind of go into partnership with you and I'll
make sure that you get everything done but you just have to do it basically and she wrote to one
of her friends if he does consent to what I propose I shall probably be enabled to keep him out
of much hot water and bring his engine to consummation um I shall be I should she said I will be willing
to be his whipper in during the next three years if I see fair prospects of success and she gave
him all these lists of conditions that he would have to do if they were going to go into partnership
and then um Babbage read her letter and then wrote his own notes on that saying saw AAL this morning
and refused all the conditions okay it is time for fact number two and that is James okay my fat
this week is that the Manchineal tree is so toxic that if you park under it and it rains the drips
from the branches can strip the paint from your car so this is a tree um you get it in the Caribbean
I have seen it I have to say when I was in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and when you see it there's
always um all the ones that I saw there was a big red mark on it saying don't go near this tree and
assign saying don't whatever you do don't go near this tree although it was in quite small fun so you
have to get quite close to the tree and not just read it um but this is probably the most poisonous
tree on earth and it says so in the Guinness Book of Records that it's the most poisonous tree
and everything about it is poisonous so if you eat the fruit it's terrible if you burn it and
breathe in some of the smoke it's terrible and it has this chemical called forebowl and it's very
water soluble so if water goes onto it the chemical can get into there and it will drip on you
and it can cause terrible um rashes on your skin and it's so strong apparently it can rip the
paint from your car it's extraordinary yeah it's so cool although lots of them are in Florida
painted with a big X which to me looks like the treasure so i would be tempted to go there
it's bad ages digging around eating the roots from the the obvious thing would be get rid of them
right that that sounds like why don't you just chop them down but apparently they choose not to
purely out of um they help with erosion from the coast as it's coming in it's very good for
protecting other trees um also I don't think we just destroy every bit of nature that's dangerous to us
yes we do so I mostly got interested in this because I saw this article in the BMJ from a few years ago
called eating a manchineal beach apple by Nicolette H. Strickland who is a consultant radiologist
and she and a friend were holidaying and the Caribbean and they saw a piece of fruit on the floor
and thought oh that looks nice and then decided to eat it she sounds like a woman after my own
heart and so they ate this stuff and got extremely extremely sick but luckily she's a scientist
so she could write it up about what happened um she said it was incredibly painful she could hardly
swallow the pain was exacerbated by most alcoholic beverages or I love the way that she's tried all the
different alcoholic beverages um although it was mildly appeased by peanut colladas um so if you
ever do have one of these then have some peanut colladas and that'll make you feel a bit better huh
if you like put that to the song isn't it if you like peanut colladas and getting caught in the rain
don't park under the mentioning tree it's it's also it's a it could it was used as a useful thing for
indigenous people who were living it's a infloder at the time where the tree is um there's a story
it's a bit of a myth of a story um but it's one of those ones that sits 50/50 on the side of
we're not quite sure if it's true or not uh there was a guy called one ponte de Leon who was an explorer
and he tried to colonize a specific bit of florida he was initially it was said legendary looking for
the fountain of youth which was said to be in florida um so he returned there after a few trips and he
brought 200 people he had priests and farmers and artisans and 50 horses and so on and he wanted to
properly colonize this place and they were attacked by the local um people who wanted them to go away
and what they would do is they would dip the tips of the arrows in the machinial sap and
fire at them so even if it sort of pierced them just a bit it would go inside and and give them a
poisoning and and supposedly that is how this leader um ponte de Leon died um he took a arrow to
the thigh and they retreated so they they actually it worked we need some peanut colladas over here now
i read that that was just a slight attempt later to slander him saying he was looking for the
fountain of youth because it was basically saying this guy is an idiot right so yeah so like some
lots of sources say it was i mean what he was definitely searching for was an island called
bimini and the king of spain had granted it to him but he hadn't said where it was i don't know
how i don't know how that came about basically king of spain said you can have it if you can find it
he was definitely colonizing florida at this point yeah what an easy trick for a king or queen
just oh you can have biblia bubbly boy and that's my debt paid off it's a it's going excellent mount
weasel sir but yeah apparently as well it would aid people who sort of were shipwrecked sailors for
example if they didn't want to die a gruesome death they would know just eat that and end your
life early it was sort of used as a suicide assistance as well again these are reports from from
the annals of history can't be sure if they're true you could rub yourself all over with lime juice
apparently to stop the toxin corroding your skin this is based on an account i read in 1821
and so i maybe check the updated medical advice but that's what the local carrot people used to do so
they'd sort of cut the trees down and they wouldn't really be wearing clothes but they would cover
themselves head to toe and lime juice i don't think there's a lot of lines that is a lot of
lines to cover a whole human body yeah that's more aren't they lime does more yes compared to human
bodies yeah not smaller although he's in fishing because you can drop the poison into a sort of pond
or a lake and all the fish just sort of go belly up float the toilet yeah but i'm not so that again
this was in this account but it seems very risky to then consume the fish that have consumed this
hiding that's true because it might be concentrated in a bit of them yeah although fish is often served
with a little bit of lemons so if you coat all your fish in the lemon maybe that's why it's made
into furniture as well isn't it or what you're kidding yeah so so they use the trick but so they
they have a special way of removing any poison elements okay but yeah so but yeah if you dry it out
so they might fire all around it before cutting it down before harvesting it and that is
precisely all out and then you can cut it down relatively safely you have to wear a big mask
interesting way of potentially killing someone because it would just look like a normal bit of furniture
you know have a seat they have a seat yeah they have to sit down with a bird bottom though wouldn't they
thank you for coming in trousers off thank you have a seat have you heard of the man eating trees
of Madagascar so these were written about first in 1874 in the newspaper The New York World
which was quite an unreliable newspaper probably because it published this account about the man eating
trees in Madagascar and it describes this human sacrifice done by a tribe called the Encodo tribe
who took a woman to this tree and they they leave her by it for a bit they put her on it and then
it branches all coil round and devour her and this is complete yellow journalism hoax stuff is not
real at all obviously but a book was written a couple years later called Madagascar land of the
man eating tree and in it I just really like this author kind of using the story but then disassociating
himself from it he said I do not know whether this tiger tree really exists or whether the blood
curdling story is about it a pure myth it is enough for my purpose if its story focuses your
interest on one of the least known spots of the world it's such baloney he's just saying it's
not true despite the fact it's the title of his book yeah yeah there's a so meta that you're now
then repeating the same fascination I get people interested in Madagascar that's all I'm interested
well what's the title of his book it's not the man eating tree in Madagascar is it yeah it's Madagascar
land of the man eating tree well actually I'm on his side I reckon a few more people visited
boosted the tourist industry back in when was it he was writing the 1870s boosted Madagascar
tourists in the 1870s yeah because there's so there's like a bottling sound actually can I just
can I just mention one more dangerous tree yes please so there's one more dangerous tree that's
probably the most well-known tree for being dangerous and that is dangerous because it knocks
you on the head the coconut the coconut tree do you know why the coconut tree has quite bad reputation
so people say like in in gales people sort of flock inside because they're going to get knocked
unconscious by it and loads you know there's that fact about yeah but I thought it was like in
Papua New Guinea like 10% of the people who were in A&E had been hit by a coconut so so this is all
the fault of sharks because though it's so I think I'm straight dope and snopes looked into this but
there was the myth that increased like rocketed up 2002 and it was propagated by this shark expert
who did that famous comparison that said falling coconuts killed 10 times more people or 15 times more
people than sharks do trying to say look sharks aren't that dangerous fair enough but he was
basing that on a nonsense made up study by an insurance company holiday insurance company that
was saying 150 people a year are killed by coconuts and it was actually based on two anecdotal
potential deaths by one traveler and then coconuts have this terrible reputation so you're telling
me they you're telling me that all that coconut insurance so far it's pointless to take my coconut
home it back to the shops tomorrow just saving your bit of hassle well there's I think
so Queensland remember in Australia Queensland removed all its coconut trees from beaches in
2002 because of the danger posed see I told you people do that for dangerous trees they took
you're right that's not just me but I am Australian so maybe it's Australians I would genuinely
just give people helmets which have a massive blade like an axe blade on top that way you just get
two coconut halves and you're fine does it not maybe make the whole of the earth a little bit more
dangerous if everyone's walking around with blades on the heads maybe what you take with Lord had
you get away with the other yeah coconut deaths would drop but I think axe helmet yes
okay it is time for fact number three and that is Anna my fight this week is that cryonic freezing
chambers are built to store up to four bodies and five heads wait a minute so that means there's
something not quite added up here this is like a future game show right where they battle out five
heads for the four bodies who's going to be placed on the head that's it yeah oh what you mean
like musical chairs yeah it's much like that how does that work well it's this I will say at the
top is a very morbid fact but basically you can get crayonically frozen a few hundred people have
done it so far and you've got two options you can go whole body head to toe or you can do just head
and it's actually a bit cheaper to do just the head so yeah it's not much cheaper though
it's not enough cheaper is it you're right I would I mean so full body or one I got full body cost
two hundred and fifteen thousand dollars from the source I was on I've actually got a better deal
okay okay two hundred thousand but okay okay and then the one and then head is ninety five thousand
dollars but that's half as much now the head is the bit I would want to keep but I think you should
pay a quarter as much you're storing so much less you're using so much like way more important though
it's about demand isn't it Andy it's not about space yeah come on mate what you're using glass
dry eyes I just think that should be better deals well I agree I think maybe when demand does go up maybe
the price will come down but yeah at the moment you can do either and also another weird thing about
the storages everyone's upside down which is truly bizarre so you've got all these bodies in a tank
and they're still with their heads at the bottom and apparently that's because if there's some sort
of an error there's some sort of a leakage and the body starts to thaw it'll come from the top
and then the feet will thaw first because you don't want your head thawing first because as Andy said
that's for some of us is the bit that we like the most this is only in the russian one isn't it
no there are lots of down yeah yeah yeah and the russian one is the cheaper one by the way okay
maybe the one that you have a good deal at I don't know is that right um what was your prices my
price was two hundred grand that was alcohol in America but the russian one does do a bit more budget
the russian one is thirty six thousand dollars for for full body and eighteen thousand for just the
head so it's a lot cheaper yeah but the bad thing about it is you don't have your own fridge you have
to share fridges with other people and sometimes with like pets and things yeah I think it's unbelievable
and you're not you're not in the separate this is krio rus is the name of the firm isn't it
like toys or us yeah yeah yeah well and actually because it's russian the are will be backwards
but you're not even so you're not only not in a separate chamber you're just in this place in a
sleeping bag apparently yeah upside down in a sleeping bag with some dog next to your head that's
it's the same in the American ones completely except there are just more people in the russian ones
so you do have to share with a few people okay yeah it's more like you know I thought you got your own
tube basically in the American ones oh I thought the American ones it was in I think it's in
the tube that you have the four bodies and they do even for the heads they put that in
its own special sleeping bag just quite like that it's a sleeping bag it's going in so nice
yeah and it's because they sort of say that to reanimate the body is it gonna be a lot harder like
with the theories of you know why just use your head as opposed to the full body that's one of the
things they say you know we'll probably grow you a new body is what they say or we'll 3d print
you a new body you know who knows what the technology will be but that's not the worrying bit you
could be a robot you can say you can say any bollocks to people who've just given you 200 grand
and are going in your freezer I mean yeah I think that's what we are saying this is pseudoscience right
is that what we're saying I don't want so I kind of agree with there's one scientist so I was
reading an article by one scientist online who I agree with who was saying essentially it's not
pseudoscience it's like science is on very unproven at the moment and there is evidence that you can
reanimate certain animals but it's extremely unlikely we'll be able to reanimate ourselves but on
the other hand even if there's only a 1% chance you know why not take it well one reason you might
come back to life forever yeah I mean it seems like it's worth doing well never ever just a bit further
down the line for a bit more time yeah that's assuming immortality has been cracked I think that's
two things have been shoved together that are quite quite right that's the 0.5% chance we've got
the elixir of life and we're able to reanimate what if they can do it they can just do it again
aren't they you know if they can reanimate the dead yes I'm with pungently on over that
the big problem which neurologists say is basically your brain can't survive this kind of thing
yeah and even if you could somehow bring your body back to life you would be very likely to be
severely brain-damaged yeah the brain is designed to keep out other liquids and stuff there's
the blood brain barrier which is meant to keep your brain separate and so you would have to pump the
antifreeze basically so vigorously into the brain that it might be it might really damage the
yes yeah and there is a British outfit devoted to cryonics so there are only a few cryonics
chambers in the world there are a couple in America one in Russia but there there is in the UK a
cryonics ambulance and what the financial times interviewed a guy called Tim Gibson who is a member of
the British cryonics society basically and they do all the medical procedures to cool you down
and stabilize you and then they'll send you to the USA and there are 40 people on the list who
might ring up at any time and say I'm dying can you come and get me and they give you you know
they give you all the drugs and then they replace the blood with antifreeze we should probably say
why they replace it with antifreeze because when you because when you're quietly frozen you're not
you don't actually have any ice in your body because that'll be really bad your body is huge
proportion of it is water and if you actually frozen it into ice then it would expand and all
your cells would explode so you have to replace all the blood you have to pump the body full of
antifreeze to stop the water actually turning to ice so I think people think that you're becoming
kind of ice but yes we definitely know we have we have Austin Powers images in our head I think
for cryonics right yeah it's yeah demolition man so this thing about having this ambulance come
they they try to get there quite quick because obviously once you pass away well no no it's
all to do with preserving the bodies straight away right so part of this Russian company the cryoRS
company they offer VIP package deals yeah and so at the base level what they do is they give you a
Fitbit style wristband and that will alert an alert that will alert a nearby team so when they see
it sort of flatline they'll go quick let's get to them ASAP well if your battery's just read out
they I have an Apple watch right and the battery runs out all the time and if every time that happens
suddenly in a crack squad and ambulance turn up turn up and try to cut your head off
it is is the only ambulance which turns up hoping that you'll be dead
yes if you're fine then they have to go away again yeah that's brilliant they would have to wait
outside with the other ambulance crew who are trying to keep you alive and then have an argument
and so the father of chronics is a guy called Robert Ettinger and he is preserved at the moment
in one of these places as are his late mother and also his first and second wives god that's going
to cause problems just I just read that man what a brilliant sitcom that is in the making right
I think do you think they're all in the same tube because that's four people that's a four person
yeah I want to use it some stranger's head oh god how do I end up with these guys
no once you learn that that's the dynamic you're like I'm but I'm paid to go in that one
I want to see that when I wake up first wife going oh and who's this lovely lady
um so this this all is quite far fetched obviously this kind of cryonic freezing
and actually Danny said cryogenic earlier but just to be clear cryogenics is actually the
science of getting stuff to really really really low temperatures it's not to do with cryonics
and this is made very clear on the official cryogenics website of the United States which is basically
the website which serves anyone who's interested in that scientist who are interested in that
basically on their front page they're like we are not about freezing bodies and hoping to reanimate
them after death we do not believe this is a real thing if you want to do that look up cryonics
please leave our website so that's people always confuse those things but it's quite far fetched
but what we can do is reanimate people very temporarily now and this is this is really exciting
so what have you just happened it's so it's basically about if you're in a traumatic accident
and it's extremely unlikely that you're going to be able to be saved in the time that you've got
then they can sort of put you on hold for a few hours and this is really early days there hasn't
been the study published but at the University of Maryland School of Medicine in November last year
they've placed at least one patient in suspended animation and so what they do is they come in
they've had a trauma they've been shot or stabbed they have a big cardiac arrest they've lost loads
of blood they're not going to survive if you only have you know five minutes to operate on them
so you cool their body to 10 to 15 degrees Celsius which is obviously much colder than the human
body is supposed to go by replacing all of their blood with ice cold saline solution and so
their brain almost completely stops they've done this for a few hours and then you have two hours
to actually operate on them and save their lives wow and then you replace their blood and they come back
like and they are clinically dead for that period of time for two hours clinically dead wow it's
not amazing it is amazing it's not much of an episode of Austin Powers is it when you come back
after two hours the fashions are going to be kind of similar to what you left so many dated references
but that's so we've learned how to press pause on life basically it looks like it yeah again
it hasn't been published yet they're sort of like drip dropping all these hints that it's very
exciting but they should be known by the end of the year that's extraordinary um I have another
freezing thing okay yeah um so readers digest magazine just suggested various methods to deal with
hemorrhoids there's just a 10 top 10 methods deal with hemorrhoids one of them was putting a warm tea bag
against your bottom and one of them was grating a raw potato and making a kind of potato
poultice okay and then off the back of this there are lots of other websites which recommended putting
a frozen wedge of potato into your bottom for 30 seconds and then for a minute and then for one
minute 30 and so on um like a chip a frozen chip no like a potato wedge but that's like a thick chip
a wedge is sorry I can't believe that this is that away we're having a wedge is different to a chip
yeah it's different a chip would be a cuboid whereas a wedge would have a curved end at a sharp end
yeah a chip like a wedge like chip like a door wedge do you think the shape is important
probably isn't it because you never sharpened in first I think if you're going to put anything
up your bump the shape is in part of it but you will want to put the fit the thin end of the wedge
that's where we get the phrase from you don't don't start with the big end of the wedge
no you're right my way to happen anyway doctors recommend not to do this because it does
some work and you just end up ruining a perfectly good potato wedge
that's the second fact you've had today where there's been a very long explanation of an amazing
fact with the caveat at the end this but this isn't true what was the first one?
the Madagascar tree is not really true I've not read Andy's autobiography I should frozen potatoes
at my bum page one I don't actually do that
okay it's time for our final fact of the show and that is Andy okay my fact is that if Hamlet had
wanted to buy a lemon it would have cost him 700 euros okay this sounds like another one of your
facts from this week I've got dance notes here now the hamlet I'm referring to is contemporary with
Shakespeare so it's if Hamlet had been alive when Shakespeare wrote the play because Hamlet's
based on an older story it's several hundred years before that so I'm talking about the late 16th
century yeah if Hamlet had been alive in the late 16th century yes and real yes and he'd been at
home in Elsin or Castle which is real that's good news that's that's a one part of it it would
have cost him 700 euros well did they have euros they they've cost him the local equivalent
of 700 euros so you've decided when there was a very famous real man available for this fact Shakespeare
yep you decided to go for a fake man okay if Shakespeare had wanted to buy a lemon when he was on
his research trip to Elsinol it would have cost him the local equivalent at the time yeah of 700
euros except he never went to Elsinol so that's another fact is that lemons used to be expensive
that's why he said the word if at the start yes okay sorry so that's all of these things are
completely sorted by that one word yeah yeah so the fact is lemons are cheap now is basically the
fact but they were expensive then they were expensive then and they're both the true the price of
lemons has changed I think it should have made that my fact shouldn't I that's one thing that
is definitely true why have you got any sort of further explanation you know why are they so
expensive were they gold plated back then so obviously lemons are more of a tropical fruit and
the other thing I didn't know when researching is is that lemons you didn't get to Europe for a
really long time yeah and in fact the part of the reason was that they are man made humans invented
lemons wow they're cross-bred between a citron which is a Himalayan fruit which is large
and not very juicy and then another kind of sour orange and we're not I think sure exactly what the
other ingredient is but we know that it is a hybrid is it was it definitely not a natural hybrid
it was definitely man made so I thought they were they're very good at hybridizing aren't they
a citrus plant yeah I don't think we've got the records of whether it was man made or natural
because I think some of them naturally met each other yeah oh right yeah they were okay all the
hybrids weren't man made okay but all citrus goes back to these three super citrus fruits isn't it
so weird yeah yeah so anyway they started in northern China or in Dioral Pakistan northeast in
Dioral Pakistan I'm not sure where and then by the fourth century BC they were in Rome but they
were still obviously very expensive and especially in northern Europe by Denmark which is where
Elsenor Castle is I found out how much they cost in the in Britain around a similar time-ish so
Henry VIII has his privy purse so you can see everything that he spent his money on and at one
stage to James Hobart for bringing oranges and lemons to the king at Hartford he paid 20 shillings
now I don't know how many oranges and all lemons the were but he went to Hartford Castle as
almost a bit like a holiday home kind of things so he wouldn't have been there for the whole time so
it would have been for a shortage amount of time he would have been eating these oranges and lemons
so maybe not so many of them and other things that were worth 20 shillings around the same time so I
could work out what 20 shillings was to Arthur the looter for a loot for the Duke of Richmond so if
you wanted to buy a loot the musical instruments yeah not the magazine for buying used cars
then that was 20 shillings what a very useful point of comparison for all of us because my loots
I know how much they cost me yeah so that was very helpful yeah wanted to buy a citron in loot
very good that's that's the joke I think that Charles Babbage would have hated most of all
in this whole show um he paid Anthony Ansley 20 shillings for playing him three days at tennis
wow and 20 shillings would but also buy him a brace of greyhounds and a wig for his fool
so these are all the equivalent of getting a certain amount of oranges and lemons is about the same
close quantity yeah sounds like they were cheaper we can broadly say they were cheaper it feels
like they were cheaper here than they were seven years ago and that was earlier so I should say
where the fact is from which is from the guide to Cronborg Castle and Cronborg is the castle that
was fictionalized as Elsinore in in Hamlet so we went to Copenhagen last year and I bought the guide book
and then I waited seven months to read it in the middle of the 17th century 51% of Dutch paintings
contained a lemon really yeah sorry in the middle of which century 17th wow that was a big one for
Dutch painting as well wasn't it the biggest yeah it was weird because lemons I would have thought
a very easy to draw and if I were a Renaissance great I would challenge myself with something more
like a pineapple well the one of lemons they just contained lemon somewhere in them it wasn't
it wasn't it wasn't it wasn't like a paint the fruit contest I don't know how familiar you are
with Dutch masters but they tend not to just be of one lemon the big lemon and the big apple one
next to it and the bananas the crowning glory yeah but I think they were a state they're a big
status symbol and they were in fact they were ornamental mostly you wouldn't you would need them
yeah because they were so hard to get and if you did eat them you initially would eat them with the
skin on apparently and say they're oranges yeah well then actually I was reading a little cooking
blog in the garden by the chef Tom Hunt and he actually said that if you eat like he said good lemons
and nobily a juice filled and should be eaten whole like apples rind flesh the lot so I'm going
to try that next time cool yeah but I mean most lemons are waxed aren't they yeah so you were
wondering the waxed ones that's why you've got to go organic yeah you don't want that wax but you
could boil off the wax I suppose yeah you could do that yeah culinary tips from fish
haven't putate a wedge in a body
our rest are the citrus fruits have gone mad in the last few hundred years they haven't they
they've really multiplied oh okay given that they did start with these three types of citrus so
citrons pomellos and mandarins were the official grandfather's of all the citrus fruits we have today
and now I think I was reading that the I don't know why this is the authority but the University of
California's California Riverside selected list of citrus varieties lists one thousand two hundred
and that's the edited list and they are they're all hybrids so grapefruit is part lemon
it's hybrid of lemon and a bitter orange and yeah as you said lime is the citron and a mandarin orange
but grapefruit is a quite relatively new I think and they were accidentally made from this hybrid
mandarin's which I think it was quite ubiquitous now didn't reach us until the 19th century
didn't have any mandarin's yeah what about saints breeze easy pealers are they they were the original
they're in the garden of Eden learning in the early 20th century there was a phrase in America
that you would be handed the lemon do you know what that is what it might be is that if someone
handed you a lemon that's not like a bad car you know where you say a bad car is a lemon no I see
what you mean but no not that and that's not a that's not a make lemonade the first just the set up
okay okay is it testicular no and actually I don't think you could guess this it was it meant that
you were splitting up with your partner okay so you would say I'm handing you a lemon and that
means that we're going to go our separate ways and you would used to get like cards or you know
where it said I'm handing you a lemon and it would be like a dear John letter that you would give
them and it comes from basically it's because they're the opposite of sweet so like you would have
a sweet fruit and this is a sour fruit and there was a song called a lemon in the garden of love
by the Broadway composer Richard Carl which had this idea and then it became really popular
and then in 1907 there was a letter in the Boston herald from a fruit dealer who was complaining
about this I'm saying I'm trying to sell my lemons and yeah it just means that you're splitting up
with someone that's not really fair is it just all his customers going we're not even in a
relationship I don't know why you think you've got the authority to dump me who said why not an
overripe cucumber or a frozen tomato instead of having to laugh is this someone an overripe cucumber
could be a good way of it's not why we get the phrase I'm standing around like a lemon because
I say that sometimes no you do it a lot but because there is there is the flood as a phrase isn't
I haven't made that yes I've been left around here like a lemon for half an hour I think it just
probably comes to the fact that lemons are the longest lasting thing right no you don't say I'm standing
around like a lemon because lemons don't go off quickly no but it might be the lasting in the fruit
pool so it's sitting there alone I agree I think what Andy's saying is if you've been split up
with then you're alone yes if you're standing like a lemon then you're lonely exactly so they're
kind of similar yeah I can see how one word of I really do think that other is right okay well
whatever whatever guys oh there is a related fact about lemons and personality which is that the
amount of saliva that you produce after tasting a lemon can tell you whether someone is an introvert
or an extrovert come on really this is something called the reticular activating system and it's a
bit of the brain that responds to some stimuli and food and also to some social stimuli and it
controls the amount of saliva you produce we haven't judged the cause and effect here have we
because maybe they're introverted and anti social because every time they meet anyone they start
tripling that's possible but scientists that's why they say you know when you're stood on your own
in the middle of the room they say it's like you're 11 and that's because you're tripling on
yourself and no one will step near you because that is a phrase isn't it yeah yeah yeah it's basically
this system reacts to social contact so introverts react very strongly to meeting people it gives
you know it's kind of more of a reaction and so does lemon so if you think someone might be an
introvert just give them a bit of lemon slip them a lemon and then ask how much that's elevating
yeah yeah yeah do you know that lemon juice kills sperm so is that actually an effective contraceptive
okay you know that phrase it's where you're like sadly like a lemon in a room do you think that
comes true the fact that how you get like a load of sperm in a bowl yeah and you put a lemon inside
it and only one of them survives yeah because that is a phrase isn't it it's definitely a phrase yeah
god there's only one flaw with that and I think it's that um I think all the sperm would be killed
so I think maybe you've got one sperm out of the bowl and 11's missed it and he's on his own yeah
but it definitely could be his cat and overused it apparently and the idea is that you put it inside
the female of our species um it was forget what they're called he knew it was half a lemon he's
supposedly used as a Dutch cap but that makes more sense yes because if you put the full lemon in
the juice is not going to get out of that I actually think even half a lemon is quite quite an
ask me too I couldn't quite work out because then if you put the whole thing in isn't I just
effectively a condom rather than just using the lemon juice which depends which way up it goes
yeah no it's a cup I guess yeah over the balance yeah yeah yeah no but so that's inside the
cup inside the the female of the species yeah yeah so sort of a catching it's a catcher's mitt
I guess is the yeah by the way sperm in a bowl definitely the worst dish on our
I think Michelin style is a coming out way okay that's it that is all of our facts thank you so much
for listening if you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said
over the course of this podcast we can be found on our Twitter accounts I'm on @tribaland
Andy @andruhunterim James James Harkin and Shazinski you can email podcast at qi.com
yep or go to our group twitter account at no such thing or a website no such thing as a fish.com
all of our previous episodes are up there have a listen and we'll be back again next week
with another episode we'll see you then goodbye